Unix and Unix-like operating systems
Unix was originally written in assembly language.[12] Ken Thompson wrote B, mainly based on BCPL, based on his experience
in the MULTICS project. B was replaced by C, and Unix, rewritten in C, developed into a large, complex family of inter-related
operating systems which have been influential in every modern operating system (see History).
The Unix-like family is a diverse group of operating systems, with several major sub-categories including System V, BSD,
and Linux. The name "UNIX" is a trademark of The Open Group which licenses it for use with any operating system that has
been shown to conform to their definitions. "UNIX-like" is commonly used to refer to the large set of operating systems
which resemble the original UNIX.
Unix-like systems run on a wide variety of computer architectures. They are used heavily for servers in business,
as well as workstations in academic and engineering environments. Free UNIX variants, such as Linux and BSD, are
popular in these areas.
Four operating systems are certified by The Open Group (holder of the Unix trademark) as Unix. HP's HP-UX and IBM's A
IX are both descendants of the original System V Unix and are designed to run only on their respective vendor's hardware.
In contrast, Sun Microsystems's Solaris can run on multiple types of hardware, including x86 and Sparc servers, and PCs.
Apple macOS, a replacement for Apple's earlier (non-Unix) Mac OS, is a hybrid kernel-based BSD variant derived
from NeXTSTEP, Mach, and FreeBSD.
Unix interoperability was sought by establishing the POSIX standard. The POSIX standard can be applied to any operating
system, although it was originally created for various Unix variants.
macOS
macOS (formerly "Mac OS X" and later "OS X") is a line of open core graphical operating systems developed,
marketed, and sold by Apple Inc., the latest of which is pre-loaded on all currently shipping Macintosh computers.
macOS is the successor to the original classic Mac OS, which had been Apple's primary operating system since 1984.
Unlike its predecessor, macOS is a UNIX operating system built on technology that had been developed at NeXT through
the second half of the 1980s and up until Apple purchased the company in early 1997. The operating system was first
released in 1999 as Mac OS X Server 1.0, followed in March 2001 by a client version (Mac OS X v10.0 "Cheetah").
Since then, six more distinct "client" and "server" editions of macOS have been released, until the two were merged
in OS X 10.7 "Lion".
Prior to its merging with macOS, the server edition – macOS Server – was architecturally identical to its desktop
counterpart and usually ran on Apple's line of Macintosh server hardware. macOS Server included work group management
and administration software tools that provide simplified access to key network services, including a mail transfer agent,
a Samba server, an LDAP server, a domain name server, and others. With Mac OS X v10.7 Lion, all server aspects of Mac OS X
Server have been integrated into the client version and the product re-branded as "OS X" (dropping "Mac" from the name).
The server tools are now offered as an application.
Microsoft Windows
Microsoft Windows is a family of proprietary operating systems designed by Microsoft Corporation and primarily
targeted to Intel architecture based computers, with an estimated 88.9 percent total usage share on Web connected computers.
The latest version is Windows 10.
In 2011, Windows 7 overtook Windows XP as most common version in use.
Microsoft Windows was first released in 1985, as an operating environment running on top of MS-DOS, which was the
standard operating system shipped on most Intel architecture personal computers at the time. In 1995, Windows 95 was
released which only used MS-DOS as a bootstrap. For backwards compatibility, Win9x could run real-mode MS-DOS
and 16-bit Windows 3.x[26] drivers. Windows ME, released in 2000, was the last version in the Win9x family.
Later versions have all been based on the Windows NT kernel. Current client versions of Windows run on IA-32,
x86-64 and 32-bit ARM microprocessors.[27] In addition Itanium is still supported in older server version Windows
Server 2008 R2. In the past, Windows NT supported additional architectures.
Server editions of Windows are widely used. In recent years, Microsoft has expended significant capital in an effort to
promote the use of Windows as a server operating system. However, Windows' usage on servers is not as widespread as on
personal computers as Windows competes against Linux and BSD for server market share.

ReactOS is a Windows-alternative operating system, which is being developed on the principles of Windows – without using any of Microsoft's code.