Apple Inc. is an American multinational technology company headquartered in Cupertino, California that designs, develops,
and sells consumer electronics, computer software, and online services. The company's hardware products include the
iPhone smartphone, the iPad tablet computer, the Mac personal computer, the iPod portable media player, the Apple Watch
smartwatch, the Apple TV digital media player, and the HomePod smart speaker. Apple's consumer software includes the
macOS and iOS operating systems, the iTunes media player, the Safari web browser, and the iLife and iWork creativity
and productivity suites. Its online services include the iTunes Store, the iOS App Store and Mac App Store, Apple Music, and iCloud.
Apple was founded by Steve Jobs, Steve Wozniak, and Ronald Wayne in April 1976 to develop and sell Wozniak's
Apple I personal computer. It was incorporated as Apple Computer, Inc. in January 1977, and sales of its computers,
including the Apple II, saw significant momentum and revenue growth for the company. Within a few years, Jobs and
Wozniak had hired a staff of computer designers and had a production line. Apple went public in 1980 to instant
financial success. Over the next few years, Apple shipped new computers featuring innovative graphical user interfaces,
and Apple's marketing commercials for its products received widespread critical acclaim. However, the high price tag of
its products and limited software titles caused problems, as did power struggles between executives at the company.
Jobs resigned from Apple and created his own company. As the market for personal computers increased, Apple's computers
saw diminishing sales due to lower-priced products from competitors, in particular those offered with the Microsoft
Windows operating system. More executive job shuffles happened at Apple until then-CEO Gil Amelio in 1997 decided to
buy Jobs' company to bring him back. Jobs regained position as CEO, and began a process to rebuild Apple's status,
which included opening Apple's own retail stores in 2001, making numerous acquisitions of software companies to create
a portfolio of software titles, and changed some of the hardware technology used in its computers. It again saw success
and returned to profitability. In January 2007, Jobs announced that Apple Computer, Inc. would be renamed Apple Inc.
to reflect its shifted focus toward consumer electronics and announced the iPhone, which saw critical acclaim and significant
financial success. In August 2011, Jobs resigned as CEO due to health complications, and Tim Cook became the new CEO.
Two months later, Jobs died, marking the end of an era for the company.
Apple is the world's largest information technology company by revenue and the world's third-largest mobile phone
manufacturer after Samsung and Huawei. In February 2015, Apple became the first U.S. company to be valued at over
US$700 billion. The company employs 123,000 full-time employees as of September 2017 and maintains 500 retail stores
in 22 countries as of December 2017. It operates the iTunes Store, which is the world's largest music retailer.
As of January 2016, more than one billion Apple products are actively in use worldwide.
Apple's worldwide annual revenue totaled $229 billion for the 2017 fiscal year. The company enjoys a high level of brand
loyalty and has been repeatedly ranked as the world's most valuable brand. However, it receives significant criticism
regarding the labor practices of its contractors and its environmental and business practices, including the origins
of source materials.

Microsoft Corporation is an American multinational technology company with headquarters in Redmond, Washington.
It develops, manufactures, licenses, supports and sells computer software, consumer electronics, personal computers, and services.
Its best known software products are the Microsoft Windows line of operating systems, the Microsoft Office suite, and the
Internet Explorer and Edge web browsers. Its flagship hardware products are the Xbox video game consoles and the Microsoft
Surface tablet lineup. As of 2016, it is the world's largest software maker by revenue, and one of the world's most
valuable companies.[9] The word "Microsoft" is a portmanteau of "microcomputer" and "software".
Microsoft was founded by Paul Allen and Bill Gates on April 4, 1975, to develop and sell BASIC interpreters for the Altair 8800.
It rose to dominate the personal computer operating system market with MS-DOS in the mid-1980s, followed by Microsoft Windows.
The company's 1986 initial public offering (IPO), and subsequent rise in its share price, created three billionaires and an
estimated 12,000 millionaires among Microsoft employees. Since the 1990s, it has increasingly diversified from the operating
system market and has made a number of corporate acquisitions—their largest being the acquisition of LinkedIn for
$26.2 billion in December 2016,[11] followed by Skype Technologies for $8.5 billion in May 2011.
As of 2015, Microsoft is market-dominant in the IBM PC-compatible operating system market and the
office software suite market, although it has lost the majority of the overall operating system market to Android.
The company also produces a wide range of other consumer and enterprise software for desktops and servers,
including Internet search (with Bing), the digital services market (through MSN), mixed reality (HoloLens),
cloud computing (Azure) and software development (Visual Studio).
Steve Ballmer replaced Gates as CEO in 2000, and later envisioned a "devices and services" strategy.
This began with the acquisition of Danger Inc. in 2008,[15] entering the personal computer production market
for the first time in June 2012 with the launch of the Microsoft Surface line of tablet computers; and later
forming Microsoft Mobile through the acquisition of Nokia's devices and services division. Since Satya Nadella
took over as CEO in 2014, the company has scaled back on hardware and has instead focused on cloud computing,
a move that helped the company's shares reach its highest value since December 1999

Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. is a South Korean multinational electronics company headquartered in Suwon, South Korea.
Through extremely complicated ownership structure with some circular ownership, it is the flagship company of the
Samsung Group, accounting for 70% of the group's revenue in 2012. Samsung Electronics has assembly plants and sales
networks in 80 countries and employs around 308,745 people. It is the world's second-largest information technology
company by revenue. As of October 2017, Samsung Electronics' market cap stood at US$372.0 billion.
Samsung has long been a major manufacturer of electronic components such as lithium-ion batteries, semiconductors, chips,
flash memory and hard drive devices for clients such as Apple, Sony, HTC and Nokia. It is the world's largest
manufacturer of mobile phones and smartphones fueled by the popularity of its Samsung Galaxy line of devices.
The company is also a major vendor of tablet computers, particularly its Android-powered Samsung Galaxy Tab collection,
and is generally regarded as pioneering the phablet market through the Samsung Galaxy Note family of devices.
Samsung has been the world's largest television manufacturer since 2006, and the world's largest manufacturer of
mobile phones since 2011.[11] It is also the world's largest memory chips manufacturer. In July 2017,
Samsung Electronics overtook Intel as the largest semiconductor chip maker in the world.
Samsung, like many other South Korean family-run chaebols, has been criticized for low dividend payouts and other
governance practices that favor controlling shareholders at the expense of ordinary investors.
In 2012, Kwon Oh-hyun was appointed the company's CEO but announced in October 2017 that he would resign in March 2018,
citing an "unprecedented crisis".